So a common idiom when building web applications today is to
use something called model view controller.
In model view controller we have the model,
which is the data we'd like to display, we have the view,
which is the place where we display that data,
and the view could be, for example, XML or JSON,
or in our case HTML, and we have the controller,
and the job of the controller is to bring the model and the view together.
So the controller in a web application will receive incoming requests,
generate some data, which will be the model,
and then pass that data off to the view.
In a Java web application when we're using a model view controller,
the servlet will act as the controller.
This is not always the case.
There are other things that can act as the controller as well,
in particular listeners, and we'll see these later.
The JavaServer Page is used as the view.
Now as we've seen the JavaServer Page is used to generate textual output,
so again HTML or XML from the page.
For the model, we'll typically use JavaBeans,
or as I've labeled them here, plain old Java objects.
When we build an application this way, it takes in a specific form,
so all requests coming to a servlet,
and that servlet passes those requests off to the JavaServer Page.
The JavaServer Pages we use,
we don't want to be publicly available to the browser as we
want everything to come through the servlets.
So we hide those pages away to stop people browsing to them directly.
And we do that by placing those pages in the WEB-INF folder,
and we'll see an example of that now.
So when we build a web application using servlets in JavaServer Pages,
all requests will come into the servlet,
the servlet will create a bean, and use that bean to execute business logic,
and then pass that bean off to a JavaServer Page,
and the JavaServer Page will use the data inside the
bean to display back to the user, creating some HTML on the way.
Each of these things has to interact with the other.
And it works something like this.
So the client sends a request to the servlet,
and it's the servlet as we know that acts as the controller.
The first thing the servlet will do is to create the bean.
And maybe the bean already exists and it's actually
getting a bean from some local storage, maybe from a session for example,
if not, it'll create a new instance of the bean.
And this bean will almost certainly contain data that
we're going to use for the page,
and will probably also contain some business logic that we
want to execute to actually get that data.
So the servlet will call a method on the bean,
and that method will go off and get the data it needs,
execute the business logic around that data.
The next thing the servlet needs to do is to now forward
this incoming request to a JavaServer Page,
and it does that using a technique called delegation.
Within a web application,
a servlet has access to an object called the RequestDispatcher.
And the job of the RequestDispatcher is to take this current
request and to dispatch it to some other servlet.
So we could dispatch the request off to a servlet that we've written,
or we could send the request off to a JavaServer Page.
In our case we want to send this request off to a JavaServer Page,
and as part of that request processing, pass the bean into the JavaServer Page.
So we take this RequestDispatcher, we dispatch the request,
and we'll see how we do that in a moment to the JSP.
Before we dispatch the request,
we put the bean somewhere such that the JavaServer Page has access to that bean.
We can place the bean globally so it's available to any
JavaServer Page that needs access to the bean.
We can place the bean in a session so that the bean is
only available to this current user, i.e.
the person that has created the session,
or we can place the bean inside the request so that when we forward the call,
the bean gets forwarded as part of the request.
When we finish dispatching the call, then the bean is destroyed and is no longer visible.